Hello everyone, my name is George. I'm a data scientist at the Financial Times
based in London and today I'm gonna walk you through our current pipeline that we
developed using RStudio Connect and then try and compare that pipeline with the
previous one we had and see what we have changed and how we have improved. So
we're gonna start with a brief introduction to the Financial Times and
the team. We're gonna then move on to describing what data science means for
the Financial Times and what types of problems we're trying to solve and then
we're gonna have an overview of our new pipeline and the previous pipeline, all
of the technologies involved and a point-to-point comparison between the
two. Finally we're gonna go through our agile practices and see how Connect and
our new pipeline have helped. So the Financial Times, as you might know, is a
newspaper. It was first published in 1888 in London, where we are still based, so
the main offices are in London. The Financial Times is operating on a
subscription model, which means any of our users needs to have an active
subscription, either a company or an individual. So in terms of data, we have
all of the subscription data, both for individuals and companies, which is really
nice if you want to aggregate things or track events and users over time. We have
behavioural and demographic data, as you would expect, and we track events both
from our site and our app. So all of that data allows us to do a lot of analysis
and develop different data science models that we then provide to different
teams within the company, so we have many different stakeholders from across the
business. So moving on to the team, currently there are six of us. Back in
2017, there were just two of us, so we have managed to triple in size over the
past two and a half years, and we are now planning to double again over the next
couple of months. So the team is Adam, Cloudy, Grace, Ollie, Simon and me. It's
really interesting how with wide backgrounds we all have, though we all
have one thing in common, which is none of us is a software developer, and as you
will see in the decisions and technology we're using, this has driven some of the
decisions on what tools we use and how we use them and what the processes
within the team are. So data science in the FT, if we wanted to
summarise that into just a few points, we would end up with three
points. So the first one is that we are trying to create models that allow users
to become more engaged with the product we offer, either the on-set products or
the app, and we usually try to do that by adding more personalisation to the
user journey, so either by promoting specific types of content or different
products that the user might have not interacted with in the past. A second
point is that we try to always optimise and make all of the different
parts of our acquisition funnel to be better, so we get better at acquiring new
subscriptions and maintaining those subscriptions, and finally we develop a
set of different metrics to make sure that the health of the business
looks good. So from things like RFE, which is our key engagement metric, which
is based on recency, frequency and volume of reader activity, to LTV, which
is our lifetime value calculation that we use across our user base. So on top of
those three goals we have developed a few different models, as you would expect,
so things like next best action and topic recommendations, so we try to
identify products or things that the user hasn't done on-site or on the app
recently and we try to send them a reminder or just a promotion for that
particular product, and also in terms of recommendations we provide content,
personalised content and personalised topics for users to interact with. We
make predictions for the volume of new subscriptions based on past
business performance, we have attribution modelling where we try to identify
marketing campaigns that are real drivers of acquisitions and growth for the
business and then use that knowledge to make better decisions for where to
spend our marketing budget. We segment users in many various different levels
and then we use those segments for analysis or for data science models.
Finally we have a set of models around identifying potential leads for B2B
contracts, so if we identify a user that is a decision maker or someone that is
coming from a specific company that we know used to have a contract with us or
maybe has one and we want to grow that, we can then ask them to move on to a
B2B account. So into our sprint cycle, as I said in the beginning we use agile
principles to some extent, so we split our time into week sprints, we have our
planning and prioritisation meetings a few months before the actual start of
the sprint where we define requirements and objectives and dependencies with
other teams or specific data points. We involve all of the relevant stakeholders
in that discussion to make sure that we are doing things that are relevant for
the business. Then we have a kick-off meeting just before we start working on
the sprint where we have a more detailed discussion on exactly how we're going to
do all of the objectives and how we're going to go about fulfilling all of the
requirements. We create cards for our dashboard and then make sure that all of
the existing dependencies have been met. Then we hold daily stand-ups where we
again meet with all of the relevant stakeholders, we show results from
early analysis we have done, we ask for feedback, we make sure that we are going
in the right direction and then in the end of the sprint we have a retro where
we take note of things that went well, things that didn't go as well and next
steps for future iterations on the same project. So now let's actually go and see
what the current and the old pipelines look like. So back in 2017 we decided we
wanted to create our own custom pipeline so we found a tool or a framework called
Luigi which is written in Python and it's a really nice tool if you want to
create a custom pipeline for any language really. So before that we used
to have a big dependency with our data platforms team so anything we published
would go through their platform so we wanted to move away from that, that's why we
decided to go with Luigi. So at that time the pipeline was hosted on AWS and Amazon
services so all of the data was in Redshift and we would have to create a
separate SQL script for any query we were running against Redshift. We would
then have to create Docker containers where we would have all of the R
scripts and so we load the data from Redshift, do any data wrangling, load the
model, execute the model within the Docker container and then send the data
back to Redshift and back it's in S3 and on top of that we would have Jenkins to
make sure that we schedule the jobs to run whenever we need we needed them to
and I think I forgot to mention so Luigi is written in Python and the way that
Luigi works is you need to provide the dependencies and the order in which the
steps need to run and we do that by providing a Python script. So as you can
see there are a few different technologies, we used to write SQL, R and
Python so it was hard to extend, hard to maintain and really hard for new joiners
to get up to speed with but it was really successful until we started to
grow as a team. So then we found out about our Studio Connect which is now at the
core of our pipeline. We also now moved all of our infrastructure into Google
which was not a decision of the data science team, it was a decision from the
data platforms team but again it proved to be successful and we're quite happy
with that as well. So now the data comes from BigQuery and then we go straight
into our Studio Connect where we run any R script, we load any model,
execute the model and then store the outputs in BigQuery and buckets in GCS.
So as you can see here all of the code required is just in R so we can have
interactions with BigQuery or the buckets with using the relevant packages
in R so it's really nice to maintain, really easy for someone that knows how
to code in R to get up to speed with and we're quite happy with it until up to
now. So if we want to compare the two pipelines, so we said that now we only
have R whereas in the past we had three different languages so that's
definitely a benefit. We removed a lot of the complexity involved which was not
really necessary as it seems. We can now publish and schedule things in just a
few minutes whereas in the past it would take around a day and if you were
a new joiner maybe a week. We can make the most out of Shiny dashboards and
Shiny apps and just deploy anything we want really easy and also there is great
integration to our team's capabilities. As I said we're not software developers
so maintaining a pipeline that involves Docker and Luigi and interacting with
AWS was much much harder than what we have now and as you will see also in the
end, the current pipeline fits greatly with all of the agile processes we have.
So now we can briefly go through what setting up a Studio Connect involves. So
as I said we are using Google but it would be more or less the same process
if you are using Amazon or any other cloud provider. So for us it was just a
matter of going to the console, creating a new instance which can be a very small
Linux server in the beginning and then you can directly SSH onto the server,
install all of the basic requirements like a version of R, a version of Java
and RStudio Connect itself. You can also create a server-wide data store if you
want to allow for data to be loaded between different jobs or different
runs of the same job. And finally you just need to configure buckets and
BigQuery, create the relevant credentials and then use those inside
RStudio Connect and that's it. So in the beginning it might have taken us a
couple of days to get everything configured and create the proper
documentation. If we were to replicate the server now it would probably take
just a couple of hours. So finally moving back to our sprint cycle and how RStudio
Connect and the new pipeline have made us better at working in an agile setting.
So creating markdown reports and providing results from any early
analysis we do is really easy now. We can move between research and development to
deployment whenever we need to. We can deploy multiple versions of the same
model. Again that's really really easy and on top of that we can create
dashboards or alerts to make sure that all of the models that we have look fine
and there is no performance drop or any failure in the scheduled runs. So as an
overview we went quickly through those. So we saw how RStudio Connect is now
part of our pipeline and how it has improved the way we do data science.
We briefly described how we configured and set up our new pipeline using Google
infrastructure. We saw how the deploying and scheduling markdowns and
dashboards have made us better in working in an agile setting and finally
how this also allows us to make sure that stakeholders are engaged and we can
welcome feedback throughout the sprint cycle. So that was it for me.
Just a reminder we're also hiring and as I said we're trying to double in
size. I'm not sure how relevant this is because most positions are going to be
in London but feel free to follow the link and contact either the team or me
directly. Thank you very much.
So we have a couple questions that came through. The first one is what parts of
the pipeline are not replaced with RStudio Connect?
All of the R logic and the interactions with the database or the
buckets or how we execute models. So it's yeah the things that were replaced that
might be easier to answer. So we replaced Jenkins and the monitoring and the
dashboarding with all of the capabilities of RStudio Connect.
Another question from Glenn. How do you handle shiny dashboards that require
querying large amounts of data that take considerable time? So we do use, we do
cast the data. So if there has been a more recent run within the same day or
within the same whatever period we want to update the dashboard in, it's faster
if it's not the first time because we use the cast data. If it's the first
run and the query time is quite long then the dashboard will take quite a
long time to load. And one last question. So is there something intrinsic to use
RStudio Connect that motivated the switch from S3 to the Google Cloud, well
GCS? No, so the move between Amazon and Google was completely coming from our
data platforms team because I think there are packages to interact both with
AWS or GCS. We should have time for one last one. So what type of
challenges have you had with scheduling jobs in Connect? I don't think we had any
issues with scheduling on a time schedule. One thing we would really
really like to have is to have trigger based runs of models. So if
we could have some rules under which the model would run instead of just
specifying that the job needs to run every hour or every day, to have maybe
another job to go in BigQuery, check a field, if the field had changed then run
the model. Does that make sense? Thank you.